# w2c-experiments

This repository holds wasm2c-related experiments for wBPF, a CS244C project.

wBPF aims to replace eBPF with Wasm. The rough idea is that an unsafe, user-provided Wasm module will be converted to C using a freestanding version of WABT's wasm2c (this wasm2c modification is still in progress). wasm2c already injects dynamic memory checks that can result in traps during the execution of the resulting C code. Our modified version of wasm2c will also inject dynamic termination checks that ensure that the resulting C code must terminate within a reasonable number of steps (we will decrement a fuel counter at certain control flow instructions). Using a very minimal wasm-rt.h (a collection of runtime helpers), the resulting C code can be called from a Linux kernel module.

High-level TODOs:
- How do we allow Wasm modules to hook into parts of the Linux kernel like eBPF?
- How do we gracefully handle Wasm traps?
  - Current idea is to create a kthread in the kernel module that creates a new stack for the Wasm program. If the Wasm traps, we stop the kthread which will destroy the kthread's stack.

What's currently in the repo?
- add.c and add.h were generated by wasm2c and modified by hand to work in the kernel
- add-driver.c is a kernel module that uses the add function written in add.wat
- run `make` to generate add-driver.ko, insmod the add-driver.ko, write two numbers to /proc/add, read the sum from /proc/add, rmmod the add_driver, run dmesg to see print statements.


# Matmul Experiment
- `apt install clang lld` (lld is llvm linker)
- Compile to matmul.wasm through 'clang --target=wasm32-wasip1 -O3 -nostdlib -Wl,--no-entry -Wl,--export-all -o matmul-test/matmul.wasm matmul-test/orig-matmul.c'
- Get matmul.c and matmul.h through './wabt/build/wasm2c matmul-test/matmul.wasm -o matmul-test/matmul.c'
- Clean up unnecessary math functions and implement helpers in wasm-rt-impl.c
- insmod shows


# Needle Experiment
- `apt install clang lld` (lld is llvm linker)
- Compile to needle.wasm through 'clang --target=wasm32-wasip1 -O3 -nostdlib -Wl,--no-entry -Wl,--export-all -o needle-test/needle.wasm needle-test/orig-needle.c'
- Get needle.c and needle.h through './wabt/build/wasm2c needle-test/needle.wasm -o needle-test/needle.c'
- Clean up unnecessary math functions and implement helpers in wasm-rt-impl.c
- insmod shows


# HOW TO RUN THE eBPF BENCHMARK
To compile e-memfunc.c:
clang -target bpf -g -O3 -c matmul-test/e-matmul.c -o matmul-test/e-matmul.o

To load and attach the .o:
sudo bpftool prog load matmul-test/e-matmul.o /sys/fs/bpf/matmul autoattach

To see trace log:
sudo bpftool prog tracelog

To remove:
sudo rm /sys/fs/bpf/matmul